---
title:  "Marco Polo"
layout: post
---
<div style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua', Palatino, serif;">
<body>
  <p style="padding-left: 0pt;text-indent: 30pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">
    You were born in a quaint village near the Palace of Versailles. Your father sold souvenirs there and your mother was a maid in a Chateau at a Cabernet-Sauvignon vineyard. In the summers, you’d get to shadow your father in Versailles. He sold souvenirs of every kind, miniature plastic Eiffel Towers and Arc de Triomphes, rubber keychains of baguettes and berets, fridge magnets of art from Monet, Gauguin and Magritte, and even Matryoshka dolls of French leaders, Napoleon to de Gaulle, which he imported from some wood shop in St. Petersburg, Russia. Moreover, instead of play- acting as the Resistance around the drystone walls of your village, you were prowling the gates of Versailles with other souvenir shop kids: Petit Quasi (affectionately nicknamed  for  his  hunchback)  and  Julien.  Your  daily  shenanigans  included pickpocketing, misdirecting lovebirds from photo-ops, and disrupting tours. When the guards finally catch you, you’d be sent back to your stall, where your disappointed father punished you with reading Napoleon’s biography.
  </p>
  <p style="padding-left: 35pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: left;">“Napoleon was born in 1769 on an island named Corsica.” </p>
  <p style="padding-left: 35pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: left;"> “Correct.” </p>
  <p style="padding-left: 35pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: left;">“He died in 18… umm… 1821?”</p>
  <p style="padding-left: 35pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: left;"> “Good, and where did he die?” </p>
  <p style="padding-left: 0pt;text-indent: 30pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">“On an island named St. Helena. Also, papa! Papa! He said, ‘A man’s greatness is measured from his head to the sky.’”
  </p>
  <p style="padding-left: 35pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 15pt;text-align: left;">Your father was short, so he liked that.</p>
  <p style="padding-top: 4pt;padding-left: 0pt;text-indent: 30pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">
    Into your twelfth summer, you were a bookworm and had mastered French history, from Caesar’s conquest of Gaul, La Montagne, Girondin, the Triple Entente. You were also alone by then as Julien’s stall went out of business, and Petit Quasi’s decided to risk it all by moving to the Eiffel Tower. Your father had a big argument of Petit Quasi’s mother about that decision. Struggling in Versailles’ competitive souvenir market himself, your father’s complaints often reached you.
  </p>
  <p style="padding-left: 41pt;text-indent: 0pt;text-align: justify;">“Why don’t we move to Paris too?”, you suggested.</p>
  <p style="padding-top: 14pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">
    To that he replied, “You know what? I thought about that already. Why don’t you do some research on that, son?”</p>
  <p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">
    So, you did. You started with Rosseau, Smith, then Weber, Sen, and ended with Marx. Somewhere along the way, the answer to your dad’s question appeared plainly: he lacked superior entrepreneurial skill. There was still more to learn though: the principal- agent problem, asymmetric information, Nash equilibria, et cetera. To support your inquiries, you took up a job tending vineyards up at your mother’s place. You also work- travelled from time to time during your secondary education to save up for university. Once, you busted tables down in Monaco just to see a Japanese footbridge like the one in a Monet painting you liked. The next year you served beer at a train station in Zaragoza where the hills were like white elephants.
  </p>
  <p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">In the end, your dedication paid off and landed you a spot at La Sorbonne, the best in France, where you would major in Economics. At school, you spent extra hours researching for your own theory and talking with professors until your ears wore off. You also hustled outside of school selling replicas of Monets outside the Louvre, using</p><p style="padding-top: 4pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">your economic knowledge to cycle between him, Van Gogh, and Cezanne to continually appeal to market’s capricious taste for artists. You were thriving; you had even found the love of your life through an Intro to Poetry class. You wooed her by reciting her favourite poem, T. S. Eliot’s <i>The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock, </i>verbatim. You were her Prufrock, her Prince Hamlet.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">Unfortunately, you hot streak hit a cold front in your junior year. You had to close shop and incurred debt as a new buzz for irreplicable Basquiats and Jackson Pollocks decreased the demand for your evocative replicas. The nature of their art meant a shift towards exact reprints, but you couldn’t compete in an industry where <i>Benoit and Co. </i>owned 80% of the market share with their control of the printers. Economic research was also becoming more constrained to late-stage capitalist models of mass consumption. Your ideas for your magnum opus, <i>La Théorie de l'Économie du Croissant</i>, were constantly struck down by professors due to welfare advocacy and dismantling of greed. Your girlfriend also left you for a hotshot actor who recently won the Palme d’Or. That hurt you badly. By the end of that year, you fell into a bad bout of partying and gambling, which left you with a lot of must-pay short-term loans. You also dropped out after getting into an argument with your thesis advisor and flunking your exams.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">You busted tables again to repay your debts, this time on the rocky beaches of Nice. After a year, you made a last-ditch effort to restart your life by taking an offer to lecture Economics and teach French in Haiti. First, you took the Transatlantic Concorde to Miami. Then, while on a seaplane to Port-au-Prince, your plane crashed into the dark ocean somewhere within the Bermuda Triangle. Presumably the sole survivor, you woke</p><p style="padding-top: 4pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">up on a small French Caribbean Island inhabited by a small fishing community. They took you in, gave you new clothes and fed you. They spoke basic French so language wasn’t a problem.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: right;">Taking it as a sign from God to take a break from Western life, you started helping out around the island. In the morning, you washed clothes with the women and went on runs along the sunny beach, letting your bare feet splash in the clear, turquoise water. Afterwards, you played soccer with the children, standing in goal with your tall frame and letting them smash shots at you hysterically. During lunch time, you manned the grill, serving up a selection of fish caught yesterday. By night, you did financial accounting for the village and consulted the elders on economic decisions moving forward. Also, every night, at the village’s musical gathering near the beach, you were never afraid bust a dance move under the influence of coconut rum. Your hips never lie. Within a few years, you had largely forgotten about life back home except for a couple of letters to your parents—you were assumed dead following the crash—and the island had become one of the wealthiest in French Caribe. The villagers were able to set up a free health clinic using only ten percent of the island’s profits. A secondary economy was also created on the island which manufactured goods using raw materials from neighbouring islands and sent them back for a small fee—the elders agree that there shouldn’t be exacerbated profits. You also trained a group of talented boys and girls in accounting and consulting so that such services would spread throughout the region.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 199%;text-align: justify;">With that and against your parents’ request that you come home, you left to go on some island-hopping adventures using a boat gifted to you by the villagers.</p><p style="padding-top: 4pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">In the Bahamas, you partied and gambled like an animal with what’s left of your French bank account. There, you tried to entertain love again, but quickly realised that no one could ever replace her. Perhaps dejected, you then smoked reefers with the Rastafarians in Kingston, even singing <i>Three Little Birds </i>with Bob Marley on the record. Then, you drank milkshakes and smoked Havana’s finest cigars as a trusted comrade of Fidel Castro when he enlisted your help on implementing a system of free healthcare in Cuba. Near the end of your stay, you brokered a deal for the return of Guantanamo Bay to Cuban control. Next, you searched for Ponce de Leon’s Fountain of Youth upstream from the scenic estuaries of Martinique; Florida was a misdirection after all. For another two years, you partnered with MLB scouts to set up a baseball camp in Santo Domingo, which produced twenty first-round draft picks since you left.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">After your Caribbean exploits, you went global. You spent a year surveying the number of endangered Black Rhinos in the hot savannas of South Africa and another year cross-country skiing in Siberia, looking for remnants of woolly mammoths in the white expanses near the pristine Lake Baikal. You then spent a season up in the Mongolian steppe setting up yurts and herding yaks in the rolling grasslands under an infinite blue sky. After that, you traded saffron, agarwood and frankincense along the Silk Road, hiking village to village from the Tibetan foothills up to the vermillion walls and golden roofs of the Buddhist Potala Palace. There, you gave up all your Earthly possessions in pursuit of Nirvana under the tutelage of the 13<span class="s2">th </span>Dalai Lama. However, after failing to let go of all Earthly desires on the path to enlightenment—you still loved her—you returned to the Silk Road, drank mad honey at Everest base camp, and traversed the Karakoram</p><p style="padding-top: 4pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">Pass. While visiting Tashkent, you also met a certain Kublai Khan and joined his entourage, drinking green tea and describing to him all the cities which you had visited: cities unfathomable to him.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">After that, you listened to sixty out of one thousand and one stories from Scheherazade, retrieved an oil lamp for a young prince, sold magic rugs in Tehran’s black market, aided Lawrence of Arabia at the battle of Tafilah, transcribed the Dead Sea Scrolls, excavated the ancient city of Troy, and answered endless questions from Socrates in a debate surrounding Aristotle’s <i>Nicomachean Ethics</i>. On one particularly beautiful moonlit night, you visited the Great Pyramids and witnessed a young shepherd getting mugged by a band of war refugees. After flying the boy back to Andalusia, you took the opportunity to scale the rock of Gibraltar and tend to the lush gardens of Alhambra. You travelled up the coast of Spain, ate <span style=" color: #1F2021;">Jamón Ibérico </span>sandwiches and steak drowned in chimichurri on the cobbled streets of Valencia, and polished a spire of Gaudi’s Sagrada Familia in Barcelona. There, the hills were like white elephants again, and for the first time in a while you reminisced about your childhood. You decided to finally go home.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">It has been fifteen years since the plane crash and you look different now: your complexion tanned by the Caribbean sun, your hair textured with sea salt, your limbs strengthened by the saffron trade, and you’re manlier, perhaps more mature. Returning to your home near Versailles, you cry for a whole night in your parents’ arms. Visiting Paris, you meet Petit Quasi again. He is no longer petit, and he has helped his mother’s small stall turn into a monopoly on Parisian souvenir shops. As a gesture of your old friendship, he takes you to a nice restaurant and shows you money you’ve never seen</p><p style="padding-top: 4pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">before. After dinner, he says, “You are the smartest kid I know. I’m proud of you. By the way, I knew you’d survive when I heard the news. Just like how you’d never lose to our dares back in Versailles.”</p><p style="padding-left: 41pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">“Oui, oui. Those were the good old days, weren’t they?” “They were the very best mon ami.”</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">Afterwards, while walking home, you see her on the street, still as beautiful as the day she left you. The memories of loving her tugged you like gravity as you walk past her. The penitent pang in your chest compelled you to whisper her favourite poem:</p><p class="s1" style="padding-left: 41pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 14pt;text-align: justify;">“Let us go then, you and I,</p><p class="s1" style="padding-top: 14pt;padding-left: 41pt;text-indent: 0pt;text-align: justify;">When the evening is spread out against the sky”</p><p style="padding-top: 14pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">She looks back, and what used to be doting eyes now meet yours with a polite glance. The you she loved was lost long ago in some tropical ocean, her little Prufrock, scuttling across the floors of silent seas like a pair of ragged claws. For a temporary moment, the life you lost flash before your eyes. You see children playing around drystone walls and a student going to lectures. You see editions of <i>La Théorie de l'Économie du Croissant </i>displayed in a bookstore. You see a warm hand holding your own, adorned with a diamond ring, and happy grandparents reading a bedtime story to curious grandchildren. Could you wind back the clock? Travel back to Martinique where the Fountain’s sweet elixir can give you a second chance? Could you relive it all? Maybe get it right this time? It's too late now. There’s nothing you can do, and she walks on. The night is young, you buy a train ticket up to Amsterdam.</p><p style="padding-top: 4pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 0pt;text-align: left;">BONUS: extra story for fans of Baoist literature.</p><p style="text-indent: 0pt;text-align: left;"><br></p><p style="text-indent: 0pt;text-align: center;">How the Cookie Crumbles</p><p style="text-indent: 0pt;text-align: left;"><br></p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: right;">Back in sixth grade, I had a crush on this girl named Hannah, and since this was prior to my discovery of minimum critical thinking, my untrained instincts drove me towards a dire need to grab her attention. The problem is, at twelve years old, I haven’t hit my growth spurt yet, and she was already five inches taller than me, a significant height difference that was obviously intimidating. Not to mention that she liked a certain chap named Jack who was dirty blonde, tall and thick boned for a kid my age (or so I assumed). Anyways, he was on the soccer team with me, and I would always see Hannah showing up to our games to cheer for him. At some point, the idea that I had to outshine Jack in soccer to win over Hannah had planted itself into my feeble mind like a parasite. Trouble is, I played goalie, and Jack played striker. And unfortunately, as a goalkeeper, when you make an important save, nobody cares, but when you let a single goal, everybody looks at you like some pitiful creature who had just let everyone down. The striker, at least at the fifth-grade level, had the opposite of that problem. So, while I was out there putting my fragile body on the line for the team, diving left and right, covering up for an absolute travesty of a backline—they were lovely fellows, but their hearts weren’t in it—Jack was lounging up front, missing easy shots, scoring his only goal from point blank, and celebrating with a silly dance. It also didn’t help that the other striker, Little Luke—again, a very nice chap—made Jack look even more like a knight in</p><p style="padding-top: 4pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">shining armour with his lacklustre abilities. And, similar to how I carried the defence on my humble back, the actually excellent midfield made up for the missing firepower so Little Luke and Jack could continue with their habitual misgivings.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">I needed to play up there. I needed to so badly that I literally tossed and turned at night thinking about the prospect. But therein lay another crack in the road. I wasn’t the goalie because I was good at it—I was but, that’s besides the point—I played there because no one else wanted to, and because everyone needed me to. It was a tremendous sacrifice on my part. After the second game of the ten-game season, I had brought up the idea of playing at striker to coach but got the sincerest answer I’d ever heard from a grown up: “We need you back there. You’re the most talented and selfless kid I’ve ever coached!”</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">Although he sure knew how to motivate me, he didn’t know that at this age, my selflessness had a limit. So, after the next game, I went looking for a replacement. All the bench players rejected my offer immediately upon a telepathic understanding that there was no reward they want which I could give. However, that is except for one person, my own younger brother who I knew had his own crush to impress. He was horrible: he couldn’t even play in defence so how can he possibly play goalie? I didn’t bother telling him his impending predicament though. I had just learned that sometimes the obstruction of truth was necessary in life.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">Training went smoothly enough. My brother could save easy shots and to me that would suffice. Even though I knew that my brother would be in for more than a horrid time, he had developed an inscrutable bravado that I thought would serve as a mental</p><p style="padding-top: 4pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">painkiller for any undesirable consequences. So finally, in the seventh game, an unimportant game against the Vienna Vipers U-13, my moment arrived as coach promptly benched Little Luke. I locked in, scoring a club record five goals while pathetic Jack went goalless. I even debuted my signature celebration, the “drunk driver,” where I would drink messily from a water bottle in one hand while turning an imaginary steering wheel frantically with the other. Unfortunately, Hannah wasn’t there to watch me destroy Jack. Rumour had it that she was sick. Even more unfortunate news, we barely won the game 6-5, with my brother making three costly mistakes which made coach visibly irritated. I knew this setup wouldn’t last long, but I needed one more game. Just one more, you know.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">The next game was the regular season closer, undoubtedly more important. And although coach had lost his faith in my brother at this point after a few more practices, I successfully convinced him give my brother one last chance. Yes! Oh! How I needed this game: Hannah was bound to return from whatever fever she had—no one can be sick for more than a week realistically—and can you imagine Jack’s temper tantrum as he grovels at my feet when he doesn’t get that one stupid point-blank goal? Well, it was all for naught because, long story short, we lost to the Springfield Sprites 6-7 and subsequently came second in the league standings. And although I scored a record-extending six goals, my brother let in five goals before getting substituted for a random bench player who let in the last two goals. By far the most treacherous aspect of it all, Hannah wasn’t there again, and at that point I was convinced that her absence was a conspiracy by that sly guy Jack. Also, the parents got sick of my celebration as well, and coach was furious.</p><p style="padding-top: 4pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">The night after that game, my brother cried up a storm because his crush rejected him due to his performances. He accused me of not properly training him and even made my parents beg me for an apology regarding the misrepresentation of the difficulties of being a goalie:</p><p style="padding-left: 41pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">“I said I was a really good goalie but that didn’t mean it was easy!” “Just go and apologise to your brother. I beg you…”</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">He was an easy boy to please. It only took me half an hour of video games before I could convince him to cook up another plan to impress his next crush.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">In the postseason tournament, I reluctantly returned to my duties as a goalie after coach desperately nagged me to, and Hannah returned to be Jack’s number one supporter, completely oblivious to his shortcomings. We would then manage to win the championship thanks to me and the midfield but in typical Jack fashion, he stole the spotlight in the final with a lucky point-blank goal that appeared at his dainty feet after bouncing of Little Luke’s fat red nose. The sight of his stupid Fortnite dance remain seared into my memories till this day. During the trophy celebration, he even got to hoist the trophy high above his head while I stood to the side.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 36pt;line-height: 200%;text-align: justify;">The following year, Hannah’s family moved to the big city and Jack might or might not had quit playing soccer because of that. I moved to playing striker permanently when coach found another goalie who was decent enough to fill my cleats. But there was no one to impress anymore—my next crush liked geography—and for the whole season, I sadly had to play the sport for the love of it.</p>
</body>
</div>


